So let's talk a little bit about time.
So the other thing that we might deal with
in our applications is things that happen,
right now everything we've dealt with so
far,
originally with from an of
was synchronous events.
With from event we were just
responding to events as
they kind of bubbled up through the DOM.
In this case we also have some abilities
to kind of like play with time as well.
And so another way that we can create
observables is with this helper utility
function called interval.
Interval creates a observable
stream that will go ahead and
produce values at whatever number
of milliseconds that you want.
Again, where this becomes super useful is
we've separated the ability to produce
values from immediately doing a set
timeout, and just they're happening right.
Here you actually get them and
you can work with them, yeah.
>> You can subscribe to this
from many listeners that we can
use reuse this component,
>> We can reuse it yep.
One of the interesting things a little
caveat there, you can reuse it.
And cuz again, we've separated the idea
of producing values on a time interval,
do anything with those values.
Each subscription will
actually get its own copy.
The interval utility
function starts with value,
starts at I believe 0, 1,
2, so on and so forth.
Here I'm subtracting it from
starting time just to see that,
hey it's happening every second.
Now you look at it's like, why is it 1002?
Because JavaScript set timeout,
that's when it puts it on the event loop,
not necessarily when it executes.
So if you had multiple subscriptions
that each start from the beginning,
there is a way to share one
observable across many subscribers.
And when we get to operators, we'll take
a look at that as well probably little
sooner than I anticipated,
cuz it's come up a few times.
We'll look at it in a playground as well.
But yeah, it's again,
separating the idea of producing values
from doing things with those values.
Again, with a set time,
I'll do these things are roughly coupled,
clear interval, you've got to keep track.
You have basically have the same API for
subscribing unsubscribing for
all of these different things.
Timer is similar to interval.
The only difference is timer
you can give it a value.
It will emit a value after that much time,
right?
So, interval will do it after
that much time and continue,
it will not do one immediately.
Timer it will immediately it will do
it as soon as you have the time and
then you could actually give it
a second value will will continue
to produce value is like an interval.
So, if you needed one where I give me
a value now, and then every other second,
we probably use timer for that.
So, you look at 2 arguments, it will
produce its first value after 2 seconds,
and then every 5 seconds after that.
So you might say something like 0,
and then every second after that,
would start you immediate event, and
then you get one every other second.
It really just depends on what you need
to do for what the right choice is.
And yeah, like they just behave
slightly differently, that's all.
One of the things that we're probably
gonna have to deal with a little bit,
now that we have, infinite values is
how do I make it stop, [LAUGH] right?
You wanna like the event situation that
we had before with the button clicks.
I mean, yeah,
we never unsubscribed from it., but
like one way to handle that is just
stop clicking the button, right?
But as soon as we start, if we were
running through one of those infinite
generators we're talking about before,
making it stop is
sometimes super important.
So it turns out that when we
subscribe to an observable,
we get back a subscription object.
It's got a bunch of methods.
It's got the ability to add
other subscriptions, so
you can unsubscribe from a bunch at once.
But the one that we care about at this
moment is the ability to unsubscribe.
Now notice I'm using a set timeout,
that feels a little wonky.
If that is the way that you
feel that is a good feeling,
we just don't have the tools yet
to do it the right way.
We are again building up that
toolset of understanding.
But we can unsubscribe from observable
by calling the unsubscribe method.
That will work, if we had a generator
producing a synchronous values that will
work on a forum event, that will work
on any of these timer intervals is one
common API for making anything stop.
[LAUGH] If you need to make stuff
[LAUGH] you just reply to that email all
caps unsubscribe, and
then you have unsubscribed from that
observable and you are good to go.